---
title: "Wednesday, 09. April 2025"
description: "Exploring new local tools like DBngin and Enchanted, and restarting my journaling habit."
pubDate: 2025-04-09
modDate: 2025-04-09
tags: [journal, blog, software, llm, open-webui, ollama]
---

Yesterday I found two new interesting tools.
The first one is called [DBngin](https://dbngin.com).
It allows you to run
PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Redis & more locally on your computer
without having to set each one up individually
or rely on Docker containers. _Very Nice!_

The other one is called [Enchanted](https://github.com/gluonfield/enchanted)
which I came across a few days ago
but hadn't yet the chance to try out.
With Enchanted, you get a nice UI
for chatting with your local running LLMS.
It doesn't do RAG, but for simpler tasks
(including system-wide shortcuts for quick access)
it's a nice addition to the [Open-WebUI](https://docs.openwebui.com) installation
I set up yesterday as well.

Today, I played around a bit more with my Open-WebUI installation on my workstation.
Don't know if I should call it a "workstation"
since it's really my old gaming rig with a RTX 2070 and 8GB vRAM.
But it's powerful enough to run all 7B models with a reasonable speed.
I also got Continue within VSCode utilizing the Ollama API on the machine.
_Very Nice! x2_

Now, I’ve made this available to myself and my family and friends, granting them access from anywhere in the world. I’m keeping a close eye on the firewall to ensure it holds – I don’t want any wall breaches.

_With this post I would like to restart my habit of posting some journaling blog posts. They will not be long but always have the current day as the title._
